Prove end-to-end correctness theorems for the examples as compiled to
x86 machine code.

[catProofScript.sml](catProofScript.sml):
Compose the cat semantics theorem and the compiler correctness
theorem with the compiler evaluation theorem to produce end-to-end
correctness theorem that reaches final machine code.

[diffProofScript.sml](diffProofScript.sml):
Compose the diff semantics theorem and the compiler correctness
theorem with the compiler evaluation theorem to produce end-to-end
correctness theorem that reaches final machine code.

[echoProofScript.sml](echoProofScript.sml):
Compose the echo semantics theorem and the compiler correctness
theorem with the compiler evaluation theorem to produce end-to-end
correctness theorem that reaches final machine code.

[grepProofScript.sml](grepProofScript.sml):
Compose the grep semantics theorem and the compiler correctness
theorem with the compiler evaluation theorem to produce end-to-end
correctness theorem that reaches final machine code.

[helloErrProofScript.sml](helloErrProofScript.sml):
Compose the helloErr semantics theorem and the compiler correctness
theorem with the compiler evaluation theorem to produce end-to-end
correctness theorem that reaches final machine code.

[helloProofScript.sml](helloProofScript.sml):
Compose the hello semantics theorem and the compiler correctness
theorem with the compiler evaluation theorem to produce end-to-end
correctness theorem that reaches final machine code.

[iocatProofScript.sml](iocatProofScript.sml):
Compose the iocat semantics theorem and the compiler correctness
theorem with the compiler evaluation theorem to produce end-to-end
correctness theorem that reaches final machine code.

[patchProofScript.sml](patchProofScript.sml):
Compose the patch semantics theorem and the compiler correctness
theorem with the compiler evaluation theorem to produce end-to-end
correctness theorem that reaches final machine code.

[sortProofScript.sml](sortProofScript.sml):
Compose the sort semantics theorem and the compiler correctness
theorem with the compiler evaluation theorem to produce end-to-end
correctness theorem that reaches final machine code.

[wordcountProofScript.sml](wordcountProofScript.sml):
Constructs the end-to-end correctness theorem for wordcount example
by composing the application-specific correctness theorem, the
compiler evaluation theorem and the compiler correctness theorem.
